---
layout: paper
title: Executive and arousal vigilance decrement in the context of the attentional networks. The ANTI-Vea task
image: /images/papers/4.png
authors: Luna F, Marino J, Roca J, Lupiáñez J.
year: 2018
ref: Luna et al. 2018. Journal of Neuroscience Methods.
journal: "Journal of Neuroscience Methods"
pdf: /pdfs/papers/2018-01-03-luna-jnsm.pdf
doi: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2018.05.011
---

# Abstract

Background
Vigilance is generally understood as the ability to detect infrequent critical events through long time periods. In tasks like the Sustained Attention to Response Task (SART), participants tend to detect fewer events across time, a phenomenon known as “vigilance decrement”. However, vigilance might also involve sustaining a tonic arousal level. In the Psychomotor Vigilance Test (PVT), the vigilance decrement corresponds to an increment across time in both mean and variability of reaction time.

New Method
The present study aimed to develop a single task –Attentional Networks Test for Interactions and Vigilance – executive and arousal components (ANTI-Vea)– to simultaneously assess both components of vigilance (i.e., the executive vigilance as in the SART, and the arousal vigilance as in the PVT), while measuring the classic attentional functions (phasic alertness, orienting, and executive control).

Results
In Experiment #1, the executive vigilance decrement was found as an increment in response bias. In Experiment #2, this result was replicated, and the arousal vigilance decrement was simultaneously observed as an increment in reaction time.

Comparison with Existing Method
The ANTI-Vea solves some issues observed in the previous ANTI-V task with the executive vigilance measure (e.g., a low hit rate and no vigilance decrement). Furthermore, the new ANTI-Vea task assesses both components of vigilance together with others typical attentional functions.

Conclusions
The new attentional networks test developed here may be useful to provide a better understanding of the human attentional system. The role of sensitivity and response bias in the executive vigilance decrement are discussed.


